we've placed wait inside of each
of these boxes we asked our
volunteers without peeking to
tell us which is heavier
that one seems to have here
definitely yeah definitely
this is later yeah this one
feels a little bit heavier which
i thought would be lighter but
it's not think my job
huh ok so when you had just
looked at the boxes when you
just look at the size which one
did you think would be heavier
I guess this one because it was
just so big so its bigger
yeah initially you're going to
think bigger means heavier
yeah i was saying the same thing
too turns out this game requires
more than just your sense of
sight and touch your brain also
relies on motor learning the
kind of muscle memory super
sense to gauge the way to the
boxes
so which box is really heavier
bring that one over here and
then read the reading from the
scale in pounds 14 pounds 14
pounds yeah alright so now we
know the lighter boxes using
pounds
let's bring in the heavier box
of your box right
14 pounds
wait plate what does it say
14 pounds were voicing time it's
the same exact thing but we we
really yeah
how does that even work though
like why well when you first
pick up the box you have this
expectation that the larger one
will be heavier and so you apply
more force than you need and
that makes it wind up feeling
lighter in a way but you lifted
it multiple times and you moved
it around and you really
developed an internal model of
what the wait was in other words
your motor sensing system
figured it out
it knows that it requires the
same force to lift each box but
the cognitive perceptual part of
your brain refuses to accept
that conclusion
so it's still thinks that the
smaller box is heavier
what does that tell you about
your brain it has lied to me
I do not trust anything anymore
ever
we live in the matrix oh god no